Oh
hi guys Laura Vitale and today / my
husband jose request i'm going to share
with you my recipe for his favorite
mashed potatoes in the world these are
my red skin mashed potatoes full of
chives buttery cheesy goodness
they are perfect for this time of year a
real hearty side dish and really the
most incredible mashed potato you can
serve at your holiday table they're full
of flavor and i just absolutely love
them we're going to start i'm just going
to share it with you right now show you
the potatoes these are some small little
little baby red skin potatoes you can
use the bigger ones if you want and you
just have to cut them smaller but the
point is you want these little red skin
potatoes the skins really nice and thin
so therefore when you mash them together
you can leave the skin in there now if
you don't want to leave the skin and by
all means peel your potatoes it's
completely fine either way they're going
to be delicious now what i want you to
do is scrub them really really well
because you're gonna eat the skin so you
want to make sure that that's taken care
of and you want to have a big pan with
water ready now the pot is not turned on
yet i didn't turn the water on yet
because one of the biggest mistakes
people make is when they cook potatoes
to make mashed potatoes or to make any
kind of potato dish is they took take
the potatoes and they put them in
boiling water what that's doing is
cooking the outside and the insides not
cooked yet so it's just got it really
I'm even cooking temperature it's so
it's not going to be the best result but
you always want to make sure you start
with cold water and then when you add
everything together you turn it on and
you cook them so I'm going to do is to
my potatoes and I'm just going to
quarter them because again these are
just going to cook in no time now to the
potatoes are just a little bit bigger
I'm going to cut them a little smaller
I'm going to cut them a little bit more
because what you want to make sure is
that all of your potatoes are about the
same size so they cook evenly there's
nothing worse than when you have one
potato that's perfectly cooked and
another piece that's raw so you want to
just take the extra time and again I'm
cutting the big ones into about 6 pieces
and then the smaller one like this one's
really small so I'm just going to cut it
half because you can see this half and
then one week on three pieces it's
pretty much the same size so you want to
make sure that you keep that in mind
any time you're cooking potatoes or any
vegetable really because you want them
to cook evenly the last of the potatoes
now before you turn the water on you
want to make sure that you salt your
cooking water because like you do with
pasta this is the only chance you're
going to get to cook to actually season
the potatoes themselves before you go
ahead and season your final dish it's
super super important like if you've
ever boiled potatoes with no salt in the
water
it tastes bland they don't have very
much flavor to them same thing with
pasta if you cook boil if you boil pasta
in plain water with no salt they really
taste like nothing so it makes a huge
difference all I'm going to do is bring
this to a boil kind of take the heat
down to about a simmer or so it's going
to cook for about 20 minutes or in total
or fork-tender which is really important
you don't want this to be at all a
dental you want these to be really
really soft and tender to get that
perfect mashed potato consistency and
when they aren't there we will move on
to the next step my potatoes cooked in
boiling water for about 25 minutes would
make sure - really really soft and then
all I did I dream them and I put them
back into the same pops that is the
trick and I have the heat on low and I'm
just going to use my potato masher to
mash this up and over here what I have
is some unsalted butter and some cream
cheese that are at room temperature
along with some chopped chives some
whole milk that I just warmed up in the
microwave and some good-quality prime in
general and of course I'm gonna have to
season this with salt and pepper to
taste
all I'm doing is I'm just mashing this
up with my potato masher and now I'm
going to take my knife and little by
little I'm going to add some butter and
cream cheese and just mix them together
as I mash them with the heat on low
until you have the cream cheese and the
butter all combined my cream cheese and
my butter are mixed in there really well
so now I'm going to do I still have the
heat on low I'm gonna grit in a good
amount of parmesan oh you know me you
know I like it so I'm gonna probably put
in about good three-quarters of a cup or
so but you know you can add as much or
as little as you want if you don't want
to add any by all means leave it out but
I mean I don't know why you
to go ahead and create a really good
amount looks good and I'm going to add
in my chopped chives that give it a
really good sort of fresh not really an
onion bite but just a little something
that Lyman's this up a little bit
because it is really really rich plenty
of black pepper and salt make sure that
you season this well because potatoes
love love salt and even though we did
boil them in the salted water you want
to make sure you season as well and then
just add a little bit of milk at a time
and just stop until you reach your
desired consistency of your mashed
potatoes and that is it this is looking
perfect for me I used about 3/4 of a cup
of whole milk it's creamy
I can smell the cheese it's going to be
divine I'm just going to give myself a
little taste because I do have people
coming over for dinner but I hardly
could resist mashed potatoes ever mmm
really hot but there's a reason why this
is my husband Joe's favorite mashed
potato and I think if you do give them a
try you'll understand why they're sweet
yet they're buttery and they're cheesy
and they've got that sort of bright
onion from the chives and I like that
they're chunky from the skins that we
left on there to get the recipe of
course broiler in the kitchen calm I
hope I mean Joe's many time with me and
as always I will see you in the next one
bye bye
and when they aren't there we will move
on to the next step
yeah mashed potato TAC much particular
time like a turkey any island we got an
early Thanksgiving dinner and we are so
excited and I got cranberry sauce in the
fridge